# Turning markdown into a living document

My plan for Maindo, is to have it be a personal database. A database that is based on markdown tables. I've gone back and forth asking, why not use SQLite, and honestly I probably should... but markdown has a few notable benefits that I feel are more practical,
and useful for me and how I would like to use Maindo. First, databases need a UI, markdown does not. I love building UI, I like working with databases, but hell I do that all day every day for work. I think it would be nice working on a purely text based project. Eventually I believe a GUI will be needed, perhapse it could be like Obsidian, still using Markdown. I can make the core of Maindo generic and not care about the underlying database. Because Markdown is plaintext, it can be edited in the text editor of your choice, many amazing plugins exist that make editing markdown a pleasure.

## Why not org?

Well... as much as I like Emacs and Org, I don't want to be tied to emacs. Not because it isn't a fantastic editor (it rules), but because I don't use it for work... I've invested time and effort configuring neovim and it suites my needs very well. Emacs being a software platform is a cool idea, and being a lisp interpreter with a gui is great! But I don't really want to use the tools built on emacs either. so idk, maybe when my beard grows out and turns gray, I might go back to emacs, and probably full on guix os.

## Syncing

I'll use git as a sync tool, it can give information on what files changed and be used to create diffs

## Reference by document name

I'll abuse the link syntax, this is how you can insert a link by name,
Maindo will insert the link below

[//]: # (my-doc.md)
[My Doc](./my-doc.md) <-- generated by Maindo

## Execute using sqlite

Convert markdown table to sqlite table
insert all rows
run query
dump table
convert results to markdown table
insert results into the document (or file)
